# Welcome To The Course

Hey guys, welcome to Modern React From The Beginning! I wanted to take this time to tell you what you can expect from this course. So we're going to learn React from the ground up and this is an excellent course for beginners. However it's only for beginners. Over the past few years, the way that we use React has changed. It went from using a little tool called Create React App to build single page applications to being used in literally dozens of different environments and meta frameworks. So React applications can vary wildly when it comes to how that project is structured and maintained. My goal for this course is to of course teach you the fundamentals such as components, hooks, state, props, etc, especially the beginners, but also to show you how to use React in different environments from a kind of vanilla client-side setup with Vite, which is an amazing dev server and frontend tool to React Router Version 7 in both declarative mode and framework mode, in which we'll also take advantage of server-side rendering. We'll also get into Tanstack Router and TansStack Query. In addition, we'll build a MERN stack application and get into backend development with Node, Express and MongoDB as well as authentication with JWTs and refresh tokens. We'll even get into Strapi, which is a headless content management system.

Now this course is taking the place of my older React Front To Back course. I feel like that course didn't dive enough into certain topics. So I made a bigger effort to use and explain things I feel like I left out of that course. Things like component lifecycle and when components render. Things like the useRef hook and context API. We'll go a little more in depth with stuff like that. 

There are a bunch of projects but it's not really about the actual projects, it's about what you'll learn from them. Each project had a purpose. We'll start with some small projects such as a ratings component to teach you the fundamentals, a crypto dashboard to show prices and trends to demonstrate how to fetch data from a 3rd party API and the useEffect hook, a shopping cart to show you how to use the context API, A notes app to learn all about the useRef hook. A developer portfolio that uses React Router v7 and server-side rendering. We'll first use data from a mock REST API and then we'll hook up a headless content management system and a contact form. We'll learn how to fetch data with loaders. Create pagination and filtering. All the stuff you would want in a production project.

We'll learn about Tanstack Query by building a Github profile finder project. We'll create an app called Idea Drop using Tanstack router. Again, we'll start with a mock API and then we'll get into full stack development and learn how to create our own backend. We'll deploy the API to Render.com and the frontend to Vercel.

So that's a quick rundown of this course. Again, whether you're brand new to React or you've been using it and want to learn how to use it in different environments, you're in the right place.

Let's get started!
